DNS Enumeration
DNS is one of the most critical
systems on the Internet.
It is a distributed database responsible
for translating user-friendly domain names
into IP addresses.
When a browser needs
to resolve a host name,
like www.megacorpone.com,
it passes the hostname to the
operating system’s DNS client,
which forwards the request to
the external DNS server
it’s configured to use.
This first server in the chain
is known as the DNS recursor
and is responsible for returning
the results to the DNS client.
The recursor queriesthe
authoritative nameserver,
which contains the DNS records in a
local database known as a zone file.
There are typically
two zones for each domain.
The forward lookup zone is used to find
the IP address of a specific hostname
and the reverse lookup zone
is used to find the
hostname of a specific IP address.
Once the DNS recursor provides
the DNS client with the IP address
for www.megacorpone.com,
the browser can contact
the correct web server
at its IP address and load the webpage.